# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project

### The main purpose of this analysis is looking at data from many different Kickstarter campaigns with the intention of finding any trends or information that would help launch a successful Kickstarter campaign for a Play or Theater production. The client, Louise, has launched a Kickstarter for her play, *Fever*, and is near her goal, but she would still like to know how different campaigns have faired based on their launch date and financial goals.

## Analysis and Challenges

### The first relationship that was analysised was between the outcomes for a theater kickstarter and their launch date. The easiest way to get all of the data we want to analysis in the same place is to create a pivot table. Creating a pivot table that sorts the outcomes based on each month that can also be filtered by category and year will get all the data we care about in one place. At this point creating a line graph that uses number of campaigns as its y axis and month as its x axis will be our best way to visualize any trends that would be present. Setting up a graph with those axies gives us [this graph](Theater_Outcomes_Vs_Launch.png). Looking at the line for successful campaigns we notice that starting in March there is a large uptick in successful campaigns. This surge of success then gradually tappers off till September where the number of successful campaigns falls back down to just under 60, which is closer to the average number of successful campaigns a year. Analysis of the outcomes based on launch date tells us that an aspiring theater kickstarters should start their campaign in the spring where there is a pattern of higer success rates than in other months.


### The second relationship that was analysised was between the monetary goal set by a kickstarter campaign and their outcome. To start this analysis it is best to set up the ranges that we will look at for the goals. Setting up each range to be about $5,000 apart will give us a way to section up the different goals, but due to the number of campaigns who have goals under $5,000 we should break up or first range of goals into two seperate. Making our first range less than 1000 and our second 1000 to 4999 will break up the data into more readable and helpful numbers. Creating a similar cut off for our last range at greater than 50,000 will also help keep our data organized. Next we need to pull the outcome of each campaign according to the range it falls into. To do this we will use the excel function "=COUNTIFS()". So for example if we wanted to populate the colum that represents the number of successful kickstarters we use "=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"successful")". That will return the number for all kickstarters in all goal ranges, so to make it range specific for our first range of less than 1000 you would tpye "=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"successful",Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<1000")". Once that step is done for all ranges and all outcomes it is time to find the percentage of campaigns in each range that either failed, was successful, or got canceled. After calculating the percentages its time to graph the results. A line graph with our goal ranges as the x axis and percent as the y axis makes the most sense to view this data. Entering the data into the graph as stated should result in [this graph](Outcomes_vs_Goals.png). Looking at the outcomes graph it is clear to see that campaigns less than $15,000 have a greater than 50% chance at success. Once a campaign goes above that asking price it's chances get worse up to a point. Somewhat supprisingly campaigns that sought $35,000 to $44,999 had a success rate of 66.67%, which is not in line with the surounding ranges who's success is closer 25%. Analysing the Outcomes of each Kickstarter based on the goal it had set reveals that campaigns in the ranges of $0 to $15000 and $35,000 to $45,000 are more successful than not while kickstarters that fall into the other goal ranges fail more than they succeed.


### The most challeneging part of the Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date of the analysis for me was making sure that the pivot table displayed all the appropriate information in the right places by playing around wih the pivot table fields. As for the Outcomes Based on Goals my biggest struggle was making sure my syntax was correct for the "=COUNTIFS()" statments and making sure I had all the criteria accounted for.



## Results

- Two conclusions that can be drawn about the Outcomes based on Launch Date are  that there are more successful campaigns than failed no matter the month, and that the best time to launch a theater kickstarter campaign is in spring.

- When it comes to Outcomes based on Goals it is evident that once a campaign's goal exceeds $15,000 the chances of it succeeding  begin to fall below 50%.

- Some limitations of the dataset might be the lack of access how much was contributed to each kickstarter on a month by month basis. Only having the total pledged as well as not knowing if the goal increased over the course of the kickstarter campaign would give the data more context and allow for better analysis.

- Another possible graph or table that we could create is a bar graph of how the goal coralates with the average donation with the x axis being total goal and the y axis being the average donation. In addition, a table that breaks down number of backers compared to goal or category could help to further understand the data and uncover trends.
